Tutorial Contributing Guide (#672)
lit/lit.dev: packages/lit-dev-content/samples/tutorials/CONTRIBUTING.md

# Authoring a lit.dev Tutorial

Lit tutorials are a way to provide a guided, interactive learning experience to Lit users. Under the hood it leverages playground elements as well as our markdown renderer.

## Steps for Authoring

<details>
  <summary>Create a directory in <code>/packages/lit-dev-content/tutorials/</code></summary>

This directory name is also going to be a part of the URL e.g. `https://lit.dev/tutorials/tutorial-name`
</details>

<details>
  <summary>In that directory create a <code>tutorial.json</code></summary>

> See format in following section

Reviewer: This is kind of dumb maybe but the format looks kind of funky with a summary followed by an outdented details sentence. Maybe convert each of these single steps into single-step bulleted lists, so they match the format of the two-step ones?

This would be a little tricky for the last `<detail>` item which includes a code sample, though. You'd need to indent that as well.

```suggestion
* See format in following section.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Create a <code>description.md</code> in that directory that describes the tutorial</summary>

* This will show up in the card catalog
* This file can be empty, but must exist
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Create a directory for each step in your tutorial</summary>

Directory names must start from `00/` and increase numerically as a 2 digit number e.g. `01/` will follow `00/`
</details>

<details>

>   <summary>Each step must have a <code>before/</code> and <code>after/</code> subdirectory</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Each step must have  <code>before/</code> and <code>after/</code> subdirectories</summary>
```

interface TutorialManifest {
  // The title of the tutorial. This shows up as the title in
  // the catalog card and in the tutorial itself
  header: string;
  // The difficulty of the tutorial
  difficulty: '' | 'Beginner' | 'Intermediate' | 'Advanced';
  // The size of the card in the catalog NOTE: you may have to
  // trigger `npm run dev` to make this change reflect
  size: 'tiny'|'small'|'medium'|'large';
  // Approximate duration in minutes of the tutorial to be
  // displayed on the catalog card. Set to 0 if you don't
  // want to display a duration
  duration: number;
  // Category to display it in the catalog. Can be any string
  // actually, but 'Learn' and 'Build' will actually make it
  // display in the appropriate sections in the catalog
  category: 'Learn' | 'Build' | 'Draft';
  // Location of the image to display relative to site root.
  // e.g. "images/animations.gif"
  imgSrc?: string;
  // Alt text for the image
  imgAlt?: string;
  // Array of tutorial step titles to display in the tutorial
  // itself. Also used to calculate number of steps in tutorial
  steps: {
    // Title of the current step
    title: string;
  }[]
}
```

## Step Instruction Authoring

> When authoring user instruction for a tutorial step, you must create a markdown file with the steup number in its name in the `/packages/lit-dev-content/site/tutorials/content/` directory. e.g. the instructions for step `my-tutorial/05/` should be named `content/my-tutorial/05.md`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When authoring user instructions for a tutorial step, create a markdown file with the step number in its name in the `/packages/lit-dev-content/site/tutorials/content/` directory. For example, the instructions for step `my-tutorial/05/` should be named `content/my-tutorial/05.md`.
```

> To display code in a step's instructions you can use the `switchable-sample` macro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display code in the instructions you can use the `switchable-sample` macro
```
